---
title: Coding-Lover-Or-Coding-Worker-Or-Both
tags:
  - English
  - Tech
date: 2021-04-28 03:57:19
---


## Coding Lover or Coding Worker or Both?

Recently, my new project is pushed to production. You might think that I would be exciting about it. Because it is the second project that I designed & developed & tested, and it finally pass the review from senior engineers and goes to the production. But I am very exhausted these days about this project. I have to admit I was 100% exiting about it at the beginning, but at the end now, I was not excited at all. So what happened?     
At beginning, when I get the project, I would say it is a very good project for me. The requirement is mostly focused on system designing, because the old version is already solve the core algorithm, but people are not appreciated for the stability. What I need to enhance is the system. It needs a more stable and scalable structure, so it will fits more about the production situation. So I was very exiting about this "message queue - worker" pattern implement. I draw the design diagram, I worked on the API document, I create the schema of mongo database collections. And because I learnt a lot from the bugs from the first project I worked. So I think I covered all the corner case and it should be perfect.  
So after the development finished, I start to push it to production. I was behaved like the project owner, I talked with customer success team to understand their needs and requirements and of course the timeline. Then I talked with cloud ops about the deployment requirements. After that I believed the project is good to go. So I push it to the channel to go production.  
But the things turned ugly at this point. As I described before, this is not a brand new deployment, but a upgrade, though it is a overall upgrade. But apparently our senior engineers are not agree with that. After a week of silence, My new design is heavily challenged. At first I feel it's OK, because people's concern is all reasonable. For example, the structure of the message queue. I will say my message queue is well designed, because I carefully review the code from a open source message queue implementation, and I used message queue from my first project, so I was well prepared to explain my design. But their concern is from the other pointer of the view, the reason they wish I change the structure is because they want to apply the auto scaling policy they are using now to fit for my workers. I never thought of that. This indeed is a very good suggestion, so I changed the code and message queue to fit for the standard message queue structure so they could apply the auto scaling policy to it. ( For a little more explain about this, the other service will monitoring the message queue, and if the queue is slow, they will add machine as queue consumer, so a standard queue will help to determine whether the queue is slow or not )  
So I took 4 suggestions at this point and go back to enhancement my code. and after two weeks, I push the code again. After that I waited for a week and people agree to proceed to deployment again. And they required a small change at friday afternoon, so I said that I will changed it next Monday. And I did the change next Monday, but cloud team disappear again, I waited two weeks, and they came back requiring stress test and very strict code review.  
So this project is delayed and delayed, I tried my best to fit for their suggestions but the bar is higher and higher, and I need to wait more on their deployment plan. I was so exhausted on the waiting. And from this point, I was not excited and try to be like the project owner, I went back as a developer, I just tell everyone what I did and waits for requirements from the others.  

What I real feels, is that from that point, I changed from a code lover to a code worker. Yes, before I LOVE to code, so I did the job, and I was really happen about the results. But now, I was more and more standardized. I have to say that I learned a lot from the standards and they are very useful. But I lost my love of this project. I appreciate this change made me a better software engineer but I don't appreciate this project to made me a code-worker. I hope I could get experience and won't lose my love of coding.    